---
title: On being 31
path: /2021/03/05/on-being-31 
date: 2021-03-05
author: Pietro Rea
layout: post
status: published
---

Today I turn 32. I started my 31st year on a happy note (the happiest!). Our son Javier was born on March 3rd, two days before my birthday.  

Two weeks after he was born, the pandemic lockdown took effect in Virginia. Under normal circumstances, Emily and I would have leaned on our family (all local) to help balance two full-time jobs and the kiddos. For obvious reasons, we could not. Nor did we feel comfortable going anywhere we could bump into other people, indoors or otherwise. 

As a result, we spent lots of time together. Luckily, our house is big enough to fit the four of us and still have separate work spaces. We held out 7 months without daycare, splitting the day in two and taking turns. It wasn't easy. 

After a while, we decided to send the kids to daycare again. There was an outbreak shortly after we went back, but fortunately we didn't get sick and everyone who did came out the other end ok. 

## Work

Lots of change in my work life this year. It feels like I compressed 2-3 years of experiences into this year. 

For the first five months, I worked at Upside. After the travel restrictions took place, things got tough. Upside saw a wave of departure, including me. I'd been at Upside longer than I'd been at any other job. Lots of lessons learned. I still have a number of colleagues there that I like and respect and I wish them well.

### Capital One

After Upside, I joined Capital One's mobile team as a contractor. They weren't hiring full time at the time, but I was used to contracting and it gave me a chance to test the waters.

Capital One's mobile team was eye-opening. I'd always worked at companies that only had a handful of mobile devs. Capital One had _dozens_ of teams dedicated to their mobile app. The mobile engineering / dev ops were the most advanced I'd ever seen. I'm glad I experienced it.

This was also my return to pure IC work after a 2-year hiatus as a tech lead. Thankfully, it all came back rushing back. There was a lot of "flow" at this job. Swift flowed out of my fingers for hours and hours without consulting documentation once. Even the new stuff, like the unidirectional architecture. felt familiar because of my work with React/Redux. RxSwift also just clicked.

In many ways, Capital One is exactly what I was looking for after Quidsi, circa 2015. Back then I wanted to find a company that was deeply committed to mobile, and that was willing to back that commitment with significant investment. Capital One was that and more.  

It took significant self-knowledge to realize that while I might have been happy there in the short and medium term, I would have probably looked back in 4-5 years and realized that I should've been doing something different all along. 

### Sweetpea Mobile (again!)

Being home most of the time, I had many opportunities to reflect about what I wanted to do. Luckily, a decade into my career, I have first-hand experience with all sorts of work arrangements. 

I've worked with bootstrapped companies, startups, subsidiaries, and public companies. I've also been an IC, a tech lead, a mobile dev, a full-stack dev, a full-time employee and a contractor. 

Drawing from this pool of experience and knowledge about myself, here's where I landed.

By default, I'm a freelancer/consultant at Sweetpea Mobile. There are many situations, especially early on, in which hiring a full-time employee doesn't make sense. That's where I can help. 

From time to time, I might come across an opportunity to join a startup or start a company. I'll leave that door open if there's a good fit. 

So, freelancer/contractor by default with the occasional startup when the stars align. Anecdotally, I know a few people that follow this model. I think it will suit me as well.

### Appetize.io

This all brings me to [Appetize.io](https://appetize.io). Appetize is an online service that lets you stream native apps through a web browser. Internal distribution, especially on iOS, is a pain. You have to handle provisioning profiles and get code signing right if you're doing ad hoc distribution. Or you have to deal with TestFlight.

If you use Appetize.io, all you have to do is upload a build and share a link. The recipient can start using your app right away. It removes all barriers and "transaction costs" from sharing your app internally. Appetize is also helpful for sales calls, trainings, demos, and more.

I've known the two co-founders for a long, long time. I even did a couple of small projects for them in 2018. The engineering that makes Appetize.io work actually made my jaw drop. I'm very fortunate to work with them. 

Appetize.io has the type of team that makes me hope the stars will align. Maybe the engagement will turn into more over time. Time will tell. 

If you publish iOS or Android apps, make sure to check out Appetize.io. I haven't seen any other tool that offers similar capabilities.

## Writing

My other big project this year was writing a book for [raywenderlich.com](https://raywenderlich.com). Back in July, since I no longer had a commute and couldn't really run any errands, I sensed an opportunity to use that time for writing.

This time the process felt completely different from previous books. Before this year, writing was a torturous affair for me. I think that's why it took me so long to take on another book project after Core Data by Tutorials (7 years!).

This time the words flowed more easily. I don't know how the book will be received (it'll come out next month), but I think it's my best technical writing so far.

Writing this book about iOS app distribution reminded me of the movie "Slumdog Millionaire", where all the question in the game show tied back to specific points in Jamal's life. Many points in the writing triggered specific memories of things I did and the people I did them with.

## Social Media

I have the habit of closing my social media accounts during big writing projects. I've been doing so since my senior thesis in college. 

However, this time was more than just about the writing. I felt like I had reached a breaking point. My mind fixates and obsesses (isn't that common with developers?). I didn't like seeing my compulsions get thrown back at me on my feeds. I was also tired of seeing so much anger all the time. So I cut it all out. 

I closed everything that had a dynamically-generated feed like Facebook and Instagram. Not even Venmo and Spotify survived. I let Twitter and LinkedIn live for professional reasons, but I uninstalled their mobile client from my phone. 

And my phone? I also did something about my phone addiction. I got a cellular Apple Watch and turned my phone off during the day for a few months. It felt so good to have a book in my hand instead of my phone. 

I'm gone back to using my phone during the day, but I feel like I do it less compulsively. I don't think I'll ever reopen my social media accounts.

## Wrapping up

My 31st year is one I won't easily forget. Routine ruled supreme and the days blended together. Paradoxically, time felt like it was fast and slow at the same time. Life was sometimes challenging but we got through it together. 